# Signal classifier for sounds

## Installation

This is an R package. Please install R (version >= 3.1) from <http://cran.rstudio.com/>.

It is not (yet) in the official R packages repositories. But you can easily install it by typing the following commands in the R console:

    install.packages("devtools")
    devtools::install_github("jiho/soundclass")

## Usage

The prediction of signal categories involves:

1. extracting a representative subset of the total signals
2. identifying those signals manually (sorry, we can't help you here)
3. fitting a statistical model to this subset and use it to predict the identifications for the rest of the data

With `soundclass`, this means

    # load the package
    library("soundclass")
    
    # step 1: 
    # Subsample 10% of the data
    subsample_file(file="/path/to/data.txt", p=0.1)
    
    # step 2: 
    # Open the file "/path/to/data-picked.txt" created above and
    # add identifications in a new column at the end.
    # Identification labels can be letters, numbers, full words, etc.
    # are case sensitive, and should probably not contain special characters.
    # The labels will be converted in an R factor (see factor() for details)
    
    # step 3:
    # Classify the data (see ?fit.gbdt and ?gbm for more details on settings)
    classify_file(data="/path/to/data-rest.txt", train="/path/to/data-picked.txt")
    # Look at the new /path/to/data-rest-classified.txt file just created

Instead of working with files, you can also work in a more usual manner in R (i.e. with data.frames) with the functions `subsample` and `classify`. The various steps (fitting the model, predicting from the model, looking at the results, etc.) can also be decomposed. Look at

    help(package="soundclass")

for a complete list of functions available.


## Credit

Code by [Jean-Olivier Irisson](http://www.obs-vlfr.fr/~irisson/ "jean-olivier irisson : work"). Background work described in:

*   Sukhovich A, Irisson J-O, Simons F, Ogé A, Hello Y, Deschamps A, and Nolet G. Automatic discrimination of underwater acoustic signals generated by teleseismic p-waves: a probabilistic approach. Geophysical Research Letters, 38(L18605)2011.

*   Sukhovich A, Irisson J-O, Perrot J, and Nolet G. Automatic recognition of T and teleseismic P waves by statistical analysis of their spectra: an application to continuous records of moored hydrophones. Submitted to Journal of Geophysical Research.
